hello everybody this is venice mcneil
from magical egypt live and today i have
a very special guest with me
um chris is one of my favorite people in
the entire world i think that he has
some of the most important
knowledge to share with us as well as
wisdom
and
i'm also now declaring that he's a
prophet as well so welcome chris
happiness i don't know about the profit
part but okay
[Laughter]
well sweetie i have to say things have
gotten interesting since um we've talked
last round
yeah
the turbulence of this century is
certainly increasing isn't it
it is indeed my dear it is indeed
but it is necessary if i understand you
correctly
well you know
as i've written about in my book lsd in
the mind of the universe there's a
chapter on the birth of the future human
where i summarize all the visions that i
was given through many years of doing
the the deep psychedelic work that i did
and i don't know whether it is necessary
but the vision simply showed me
that humanity was coming into this
period of profound spiritual awakening a
major spiritual turning point a tipping
point a bifurcation point
uh that would really change human
history
and but then it also showed me that
going into this period we were going to
be going through a period of tremendous
suffering a falling apart an unraveling
of civilization as we've known it
um
and that but coming through this we
would be changed profoundly we would tap
into levels of our
core
uh and actualize potentials that were
really have been realized only by
relatively few in history
but now must be realized by the entire
population a shift in the collective
psyche not simply our personal psyche
now whether this is
the suffering is inevitable or meant to
be or something i don't know i only
report the visions that it's going to be
there but it's not going to be terminal
it's not going to be extinction it's
actually labor
and labor results in a birth and a new
birth is coming for the human family
and
why it's not fun is necessary for this
birth
and i also believe that
[Music]
holding our hands through this process
and that's why i'm talking to you today
i can see i'm breaking up am i breaking
up my dear can you hear me
am i into i hear you now
okay great
so to the end of holding our hands
through this process
i
would love for you to share with us all
today
a little bit about the course that you
have coming up so what i'm going to do
is i'm going to share the screen
all right
okay
okay so tell us a little bit about this
wonderful
wow
well you're breaking up a little bit but
i'm going to assume that i can just go
ahead and talk now
you know
i spent after doing this deep lsd
uh journey for 20 years i spent another
20 years thinking about my experiences
digesting them processing them and
eventually writing down the story of
this journey in my book lsd in the mind
of the universe or as i prefer to call
it
diamonds from heaven
and now that this book has been out
about a year and a half i'm now
beginning have been invited to roll out
this course with the shift network where
we spend seven weeks
on the material covered in the book uh
everybody who signs up for the course
will receive a free e-copy of the book
so that they can read the chapters as we
go through them week by week through the
course
it's basically simply i'm inviting
people to join me in this journey to
through our conversations through my
talks
through the q a through some
visualization exercises inviting people
to come with me on this long journey
spiraling deeper and deeper into the
universe
now
i don't think my experiences are special
or unique in this way many of us have
deep psychedelic experiences i've tried
to put a lot of energy into clarifying
the concepts involved and now these
experiences that the course is built
around are not primarily personal when i
wrote the book i dropped out a lot of my
personal experiences tried to focus on
the experiences that were universal that
were really addressing the human family
as a whole
are the deep structure of the universe
as a whole not my own personal little
garden of it
so in this discussion we go in layer by
layer stage by stage following the
rhythm of the journey itself the cycles
of death and rebirth a death at one
level of reality followed by a birth in
another level of reality acclimating to
this new level of reality
learning the rules there receiving
teachings there another round of death
and rebirth a couple of years later
entering a new level of reality the same
thing repeating itself
learning what's happening there learning
what's going on
and my hope is that by taking this
journey with me
will generate a lot of value in our
conversation in our discussion
in the clarification we can bring to
really thorny issues
about why life is the way it is
what is the purpose and goal of our
existence and i know it sounds grandiose
to sort of bring those categories in
but i think if we my basic understanding
of psychedelics is that it allows us to
enter into deeper communion
with the intelligence of the universe
and that when we do that uh the universe
will speak to us it will teach us it
will take us in it'll it will give us a
sense of the larger landscape
and so i don't think that anything i'm
sharing is in any way unique i think it
shows up in the work of other
psychedelists psychonauts it shows up in
stan groff's work it's just laid out in
a very carefully man careful manner and
it allows us to discuss some
deep topics that are you don't find
discussed very much um so that's that's
my hope for the course that's the agenda
i think it sounds amazing and i
am very blessed to have kind of a cheat
sheet here but before we actually go
into that i think your point is is very
important i think that
for those who have not read chris's
books or or
at least or possibly even not seen a
video
chris's journey took him through a
personal journey a
it kind of expanded into masculinity or
the male journey expanded into a human
journey and the expansion just kept
going on and so for most of us
we
you're breaking up back up and start
again for most of us
oh for most of us we barely get out of
our personal journey
i am so sorry that this is so unstable
sweetie why don't you give us a taste
because you're not breaking up give us a
little sneak peek
well
we're going to start with uh the first
module there's seven modules the first
module is going to be on methodology
we're really i'm going to lay out the
method
answer people's questions address their
misgivings about psychedelics explain
what psychedelics do and don't do and
in specifically address the particular
protocol which i use because it was an
extreme protocol a protocol that i don't
recommend that others adopt today i
would be gentler if i were doing it
again but it's an extreme protocol and
we need to really address the method
as we move into then we move into what
happened when you follow this method the
second module is going to be
on the
on crossing the boundary of birth and
death letting go of our egoic identity
time space identity a process of
purification which culminates in ego
death or the destruction
of the of
now
the destruction of the consciousness
that holds our experience inside time
and space and when i say destruction i
don't mean that we're going to
permanently damage the ego but basically
we have to allow the ego to fall aside
if our consciousness is going to enter
into dimensions of the cosmos which are
larger than time and space and are
larger than our historical experience of
time and space so we talk about ego
death in this context
and then in that same module i'll be
talking about the ocean of suffering
work because i found that in my
experiences at least working with very
high doses of lsd
after i went through ego death
i began to get in drawn into another
round
of purification of dying
and it was not personal it was
collective it opened up into thousands
and tens of thousands hundreds of
thousands of human beings
and thousands of years of time it became
a fundamental riddle for me it took me
years to figure out what was happening
and the conclusion i eventually came to
is that this purification process was
not aimed at my personal transformation
but rather
the universe was using my sessions to
bring about a healing of some aspect of
the collective psyche
some way of letting the wounds of
history all the wars and all the
terrible things we've done to each other
we've experienced together droughts and
famines that these wounds still live
within the collective psyche and somehow
by
opening up to these living memories in
my sessions
these these painful memories were being
lifted from the collective psyche
so we're be talking about that looking
at the material looking at the concepts
that are involved so that takes us up to
module two
in module 3 we then follow the process
into
a deeper level of reality into
archetypal reality
into what i've
differentiate my experiences there in
two levels which you might call the
jungian level and the platonic level
the lower subtle level the the kind of
quasi-jungian level where i had
experiences of the human family as a
unified single being
similar to jung's concept of the
collective unconscious that all of our
minds were part were fractal
components in a single mind of the human
species even our bodies were cells
within the body of the human species
how i handled my diseases
had an impact on how the human family
was learning and handling its diseases
how i handled my pain psychological pain
was related to how the human species was
being able to
handle its pain so this
at the
and i say quasi jungian because i didn't
engage any of the archetypes that jung
talks about
wise old man wise old woman but it was
this experience of over and over again
focusing
on the one human family
then at a higher level moving into what
i would call the quasi-platonic level
engaging archetypes that were so far
removed from time and space
so far beyond any arc any conventional
categories that i literally could not
wrap my mind around them i could not see
them as they were in and of themselves
but i knew i was engaging vast cosmic
forces that were responsible for
creating the conditions inside time and
space
even time and space itself
i call this a quasi-platonic
level because
plato envisioned the archetypes as
eternal ideas in the mind of an
unchanging god that's not how i
experience these beings i experienced
them as vast huge
living dynamic beings
that lived in a different order of time
in a different order of space
than we do inside time and space
so after spending then two years or so
exploring this reality i went through
yet another death and rebirth and we go
into the fourth module
where i think i've got the modules
listed right here
oneness fundamental the blessings of
oneness of moving into causal reality
beyond archetypal reality
and in this level of reality the world
lives and breathes this one
as platinum says the world breathes as
one
all the components of the world are
there
but the fundamental experiences
experiencing the world as a
unified reality all of its life forms
cells within this unified reality all
the galaxies cells within this unified
reality experiencing emptiness of self
what the buddhists call shunyata to
experience being alive in a world but
absolutely no self in me no separate
self no separate self in any part of
reality experiencing the primal void
experiencing an ocean of cosmic love
pouring into me
just multiple manifestations of
of oneness permutations of oneness
going still deeper
another round of death and rebirth
um
entering into the diamond luminosity
material
the diamond luminosity is what i use as
a term i use to refer to a state of
consciousness
that i entered into in the last five
years of my work
extremely clear the most striking
characteristic is first it's just pure
light all light realm of pure light and
clear
clear beyond imagination just clear
phenomenally clear
where the
the joy
came not from anything that happened in
this state or from anything i
experienced in this state but the very
state itself the clarity and
of this state the absolute freedom the
sheer bliss
of the freedom in this condition
i think this is what as a
professor of religious studies the
closest thing i've been able to find to
this condition
is what buddhism calls dharmakaya in
buddhism there are three kayas
dharmakaya samboga kaya nirmanikaya
three different dimensions of reality
dharmakaya is the deepest it's called
the clear light of absolute reality it
is the light out of which the big bang
emerges
so
in the last five years of my journey
26 sessions i entered this reality four
times
when i touched it the first time
it was so powerful and it was so
it filled me with so much joy and
ecstasy that i completely lost interest
in any of the earlier levels of reality
that i had explored
i lost interest in personal and
collective and archetypal
even the bliss of causal level reality
this was different this was a higher
order
it took me about a year
of very intense work lots of
purification before i was able to go
back into this deeper state of reality
and i went back into it over four years
only four times
the next module has to do with the birth
of the future human which we mentioned
before
that it it's a chapter where i gather
together years of visionary experiences
that i was given
about where humanity is in its evolution
about the turning point we have come to
my sense is that we can no longer afford
to live on this planet as a species of
egos that emphasize our separate private
existence where some can lose and some
can win
we need to grow up we need to grow up
into our next evolutionary expression
over and over again i was shown these
visions that this is what's happening
nature is taking us through this we're
going through a tremendous pressure
cooker we're going through a
transformation that will result in the
birth not simply of a a higher
civilization
or a more ecologically in tuned economy
but literally this we were going through
a series of crises that were going to
shift
the architecture
of the collective psyche
so that all human beings born after we
go through this process
will be born in the context and be
operating in the context
of a new collective psyche of a
different collective psyche a more
evolved collective psyche for our
species
the birth of the future human
which i also conceptualize as the birth
of the diamond soul
i think reincarnation has been taking us
toward this point for thousands and
thousands of years
gestation is long birth labor is quick
the gestation which has been developing
within us has been developing through
death and rebirth through reincarnation
dying and being reborn dying and being
reborn incremental gains incremental
gains as we grow
but there comes a time
when the soul which holds all of our
experiences from all of our lives which
is our natural state of consciousness
when we die
and the ego which is the small
consciousness we're born into when we
incarnate
back and forth between ego and soul ego
and soul
there comes a point where sooner or
later
the soul
the consciousness which holds all of our
memories
fuses and integrates into one
and becomes conscious inside time and
space
not outside time and space in the pure
beautiful pure paradise or in the garden
or in the heavenly realms but awakens
inside time and space
and this is what i call the birth of the
diamond soul when this happened to me in
my sessions all my former lives came
together they fused and they were
catapulted
i was catapulted far beyond my
ordinary capacities and i think this is
simply what's happening to the entire
human species i was given the gift of
getting a taste
of what's in the evolutionary
works for all of us
we're coming into a hard labor we're
coming into a time of unraveling we're
coming into a very very difficult time
my experiences in my sessions is that we
come through this
human beings do not go extinct but we
give birth
to a divine child we give birth to the
future human to the birth of the diamond
soul in history
the last module in the course is on
coming off the mountain it's about
integration it's about how do you
integrate such extreme experiences
now
as long as we're working about in a
therapeutic model
then we have therapeutic models for how
to integrate the various
content that emerges in our own from our
unconscious when we're working at the
level of the personal psyche
if we go deeper and begin to experience
life after death and begin to experience
the connective tissue the intelligence
of the connective tissue of life we have
spiritual models for integrating and
absorbing these experiences
but when we go
very very deep
into the fabric of existence when we go
repeatedly
outside of space and time when we go
deep into the archetypal fabric
deep into the light
which is the light that underpins all of
reality
how are those experiences being
integrated by us then
what does integration even mean in this
context how can a finite being
integrate
infinite experiences or experiences of
infinity how does a time-bound being
integrate experiences of eternity or
deep time
so that's what we're going to be looking
at at the last
module we'll be looking at the
challenges of integrating not just
integrating individual sessions but
integrating an entire journey that
explores deep non-ordinary states of
consciousness year after year after year
personally i don't think we have begun
to map what these deep experiences are
doing to us
i don't think we've really begun to
understand fully
the opportunities that they're giving us
and also the challenges the hardships
they bring to us in order to
you know
come back into time and space after such
glorious adventures outside of time and
space
so that's the kind of that's the
trajectory of the course
in a
nutshell so chris i'm going to leave my
microphone uh i mean my camera off as it
might help my interconnectivity right um
so sweetie do you have a sense of once
we integrate
the soul
say again you're breaking up once we
integrate the soul
function
how do we act what do we look like do
you have a sense of that
well
i think we
act like old ones
i think what we're doing is growing up
we've we see the prototypes in jesus and
muhammad and the buddha
in some of the great saints of history
whose natural horizons are so large
whose compassion is so deep whose
ability to download information from
cosmic mind is so augmented uh and i
i think it will look something like that
it will look like
an older human being a being who is
steeped in time who carries the
knowledge of thousands of incarnations
just as our ego carries the knowledge of
one incarnation
i don't think it'll be
a science fiction
exotic looking human being growing
another set of fingers or getting a
bigger skull
uh i think we are it will bring about
deep metabolic changes in our
in our body
but we'll register it will register
first as a profound series of
psychological changes changes in our
heart
we will enter into what i sometimes call
the one heart the one heart of the human
family the one heart of the planet we
will enter into deeper communion with
the mind of creation the mind that's
been generating this extraordinary
galaxy this planet all the life on this
planet will be able to enter into
communion and download information from
this intelligence more easily than we
can do it today
i think this this new human being will
actually
live in the body differently and
experience their senses differently
one of the last gifts i was given on my
journey actually was the very last gift
given on my last psychedelic journey
was what i call diamond vision
my vision suddenly i was in a condition
five hours into the session late in the
wind down stage of the session where my
vision was a hundred times more acute
than it normally is where i could see
levels and gradients of color edges of
detail
much much more fine than i was ever able
to see before and after about 10 minutes
it disappeared it stopped
and it was at that point that i began to
realize
i was had been given the gift of seeing
through the eyes of the future human
we have a tendency to think of our
perceptual
our senses as kind of mechanical
neurologically generated but i don't
think that's really the case
our system certainly uses our physiology
but as our consciousness gets stronger
and bigger and older
it brings out
deeper and more refined senses a deeper
form of vision
a deeper form of hearing a deeper form
of testing and sensing our physical body
so i think that the future human
is not simply a human with a healed
heart and an open heart and not simply a
human being with an open and deeper
mental capacity
but is somebody who lives
in
a deeper
sensory experience a more satisfying
sensory experience in their body with
all the heels of our long dark history
healed in the body
emotionally psychologically and
physically
yeah
so that's that's what i think the future
human will be like it'll be like
a grown-up version of ourselves the soul
that's beautiful chris that actually
makes a lot of sense to me
uh you as you pointed out these sci-fi
vision of humans and when you say also
the collective soul
my mind jumps to the borg or something
like that on star trek which does not
appear appealing to me at all
this yeah this vision is is very very
beautiful
i
was reading a book last night that was
talking about
the relationship between
sleeping
and death
and what occurred to me is that there is
a
mandelbrot
type
set of magnification between
the state of dreaming
and dying
and then the series of dyings that you
went through on this journey
and just like dreaming
is a
state very much akin to death
and
being alive and or being awake in the
daytime is very much akin to being alive
in a life
you just progressed up into the bigger
mandelbrot sections of that process
right
dying every time on a different layer
uh and at a higher register if you will
and
as a result of that being able to kind
of access these larger perspectives
and i think that one of
the the fact that you did that for us is
invaluable because
in a
normal waking
state
with everything that is going on in the
world it's very very hard to be in touch
with your intuition
at all let alone
having a broader state of consciousness
and that's why i think it's very
important for people and yes look it is
your journey and filtered through your
senses and your experiences
but fundamentally
there is very very precious
information that you have died for and
brought back for us
and if you're going to
one of those for the people today who
are kind of you know living like out of
all the different levels that you went
through
what a piece of information would be
most helpful for us today with what
seems to be the bifurcation of
people into red people and blue people
and vast people and unvex people and all
of these kinds of things
what can help us most today
yeah
good question
i don't know whether there's i can think
of one thing that would help us most
today but so let me just ramble a little
bit and see if we can move towards
something like that
first let me mention that um
i think this is a personal journey and i
own it i accept the personal nature of
the journey it's very but i think it's
what happens in one
one serious psychedelic work is
something like the following
my experience is that consciousness is
an infinite ocean
that there is an infinite ocean of
consciousness and my mind acts as a seed
catalyst
that catalyzes a certain set of
experiences out of the infinite
potential of this larger consciousness
now so in a sense
my experiences in the psychedelic state
are always participatory they're always
interactive my being evokes certain sets
of experiences it doesn't mean that i'm
simply
reading my own mind in these experiences
but my being catalyzes a certain set of
experiences from the infinite mind
but as i internalize those experiences
as i let them change me as i let them
purify me as i let them
kill me
allow myself to die as i allow myself to
be purified at deeper and deeper levels
what happens is the seed catalyst of my
mind is changed
so that when i go into psychedelic space
the next time
my mind is a little different than it
was before and it catalyzes a still
deeper
response from the cosmic the infinite
mind of the universe and if you keep
this up many many years
this very much matches the experience
that the more you allow yourself to be
purified the more you allow yourself to
let go of your old ways of thinking and
old ways of feeling and just
go with it just allow yourself to
dissolve to be dissolved into the winds
of the world
that the universe can show you more
because you you are capable of receiving
more because you've emptied out
your being and have been
made yourself into
a receptacle
i don't think
i think it the infinite consciousness is
truly that an infinite consciousness so
even though there were many homecomings
and even though were there many many
deeply soulful satisfying experiences i
couldn't imagine being more satisfied
i also had experiences which showed me
that it is truly an infinite world that
i was entering and i would never be able
to get to the end of it i could not get
to the end of this reality it was just
too vast and i was too small even using
this very accelerated process
so
from this journey
i bring back experiences that were given
to me by this larger intelligence which
over the years it became clear
i was being given these visions and
trust these experiences and trust they
weren't being given to me privately
but they were being given to me so that
there would come a time when i could do
my job as a teacher just as i'm an
academic you know i'm a philosopher of
religion to share them with other people
so that these visions
to the extent that they truly reflect
universal truths
people would recognize those universal
truths and they they would
find ways of integrating them
into their own life
so excuse me again didn't turn off my
ping on my phone that's okay neither did
i darling
so in terms of what would be useful to
people a number of things that come
forward
one of them is
to trust the intelligence of the
universe to trust the wisdom that is
alive and operating in the universe we
are taught that the universe came about
by chance that that it evolves by random
mutation
screened by brutal survival of the
fittest
that's not an accurate reflection of my
psychedelic experience at all
my experiences is that we are everywhere
surrounded by orders and orders and
magnitudes of intelligence
that when you go deeper into the
universe you're entering into more and
more and more awareness more
consciousness more intelligence than we
generally experience inside
time and space but
to trust the universe to trust the
universe that has created the conditions
of reincarnation where we choose our
lives we choose the conditions in which
we enter into even the difficult ones we
we choose these things
to understand reincarnation not simply
as a personal
soul
story but a collective soul story a
human family soul story that incarnates
intelligently
generation after generation as we grow
as a human family to feel that
intelligence to recognize the
intelligence how it works
to recognize the intelligence of how the
human family is now being catalyzed
all of us together
to bring forward a deeper form of
functioning a deeper way of being human
on this planet
if there were maybe only one thing if i
were to point to one thing that i wish i
could give people
it would be to lose
their fear of death i wish i could reach
into my heart and give you
this absolute freedom of any fear of
death
because if you fear death you've got
your cosmology all upside down
if you're afraid of dying
then you don't understand that the hard
work is done inside time and space the
really hard work is done here
when we die it's graduation when we die
it's homecoming when we die it's recess
we get this tremendous joy we have so
many hollywood narratives about the
spooky things that happen to us when we
die and they're they're just nonsense
they're just ridiculous when you when
you experience death yourself when you
are near a person who studies near-death
episode research and you talk to people
who have truly died and have come back
to life or who have been nearly dead and
come back to tell about it or when you
go to the shamanic traditions where
death and rebirth is an understanding is
a deep understanding what happens in
one's psychedelic sessions when you've
gone through death many times
you lose all fear of dying because you
know from your own personal experience
that death is simply a transition and
it's a transition to a happier place a
finer place a place where you will
eventually choose to return into time
space again because of the great value
of time and space
but death is absolutely nothing to fear
so
a combination of the the
wisdom of the universe the genius of the
universe
the way that the cycle of life
takes us in and out of death many many
times and in and out of rebirth many
many times and that there is purpose in
this
there is design in this the universe is
creating a species the likes of which we
haven't even begun to imagine
it has been billions of years in the
making and it will continue to be made
for billions of years more
every time we think we could do it
better if we were god we would have
designed the world a little better
we would have eliminated this or
eliminated that i think well that means
that you know where we're going
and we don't
i think we just get glimpses even in our
deep visionary states we get glimpses
of what is being built
and i think we're going to see in this
century some early signs of what is
being built in history
in the future human
see i can't agree with you more and i
remember when i was a student
and came up against the great saints or
the great sages
that would choose death rather than
compromising their
idea or their belief they would
literally go and be burned at the stake
because the importance of that idea was
so strong
and they have remained through history
as being people whose messages still
resound right in our day-to-day lives
and
what's been
very evident to me is that with this
virus that has occurred
that the populace on mass
remains very much in a state of fear of
death
and i wonder
how
an individual
that hasn't been on your journey
is able to arrive at that state
without undergoing what you've
taken
yeah or what you've gone through how how
do i get where you are
without having 72 doses of lsd
a number of ways i think first of all
read
books there are wonderful wonderful
very
well-researched
studies of people who have died or who
have nearly died
and when people
begin to read the near-death episode
literature
it changes i've taught this for decades
to my students at the university and
when you read the near-death episode
literature it changes completely
how you uh experience the or how you
anticipate death another body of
literature
is the reincarnation literature the
evidence which i find is absolutely
empirically overwhelmingly good evidence
for
reincarnation
and once again
it is
if there if we reincarnate if there is a
mind which moves through one incarnation
after another in some way
then it basically takes away the fear of
dying you understand that death is not
the end it's simply the end of one half
of a cycle the cycle goes from birth to
birth
or death to death let's say birth to
birth halfway through that cycle there
is death but there is activity on the
other side after death which brings us
back into birth again
we can study that literature the past
life therapy literature when people
actively encounter their former lives in
order to heal those former lives the
near-death episode literature the
reincarnation literature
it just when you put together all these
bodies of information
intellectually that should
assuage our fear of dying and then i
think to spend time
either in books or tapes or in person
with people
who have gone through whatever spiritual
practice they've used
that has truly dissolved their fear of
dying
to be to spend time with them because
this is something that's not magical you
know it's not
super duper supernatural it's simply
a kind of opening
to a larger horizon
where certain things don't frighten you
anymore
and it's something which can be learned
it can be transmitted from one person to
another so that it becomes kind of a
shared community value
so i i
certainly don't think you need to do
what i've done
in order to awaken this sense of
fearlessness
confronting life
that actually makes a lot of sense
sweetie yes i agree with you i mean i am
rather okay with the literature and it
does
i mean there is overwhelming evidence
out there you have a book dolores
cannon's done so much work on it there's
a lot of really really good researchers
that have
reported on this and then the drug the i
think it's the drought which is a
culture
in the middle east where the children
that have been
unfortunately they've passed away
as a result of some traumatic experience
come back very quickly
and can literally go and identify their
ex-wives or their children i mean that's
uncanny
yeah ian stevenson's work i think is a
game changer he really is the charles
darwin of reincarnation
he's given us sufficient
hunt cases
children have not only continuity of
memory they can recognize people from
the circumstances of the previous life
they know intimate details of the
previous personalities life and the
people they lived with and were
associated with they sometimes and this
is a really fascinating thing they
sometimes
carry in their body scars that are
related to the death wounds of the
previous personality in their previous
life
so that
not only mind transfers from life to
life but in some cases even sort of a
cellular memory
some transfers from life to life
i as a very young girl had a friend
my father's friend who had a constant
pain
in his right shoulder
and he went to a past life regressionist
who told him that he had had a sword
stabbed directly down his body and
through the process of acknowledging
that he felt a sharp pain the things
start filling up from the bottom and was
healed completely as a result of
processing that wound which is very much
like the work that you're doing
[Music]
or the work that you have done for us
it is
akin to the personal work that we do on
ourselves if we identify a trauma that's
happened in our life we look at it we
heal it and so you did that for us on
many many levels
of human and
cosmic consciousness right so again
there's kind of a mandelbrot of healing
that proceeds up and down this chain
and you know it may sound exotic
describing it after the fact but when
you're in it it feels like the most
natural thing of the world and again i
don't think you have to be a saint to do
these things any mother or father worth
this salt when they see not only their
child but other children
suffering if there's anything they can
do to alleviate that suffering they
would naturally do it because
the
parents compassion
is deepened by their children to all the
children of the world so if you're given
an opportunity in the physical world or
in
psychedelic space if you're given an
opportunity to somehow engage suffering
and to
bring by bringing it into awareness to
heal that suffering it's the most
natural thing in the world to do that
i don't know whether
i think that i did this work
not because i had to i did this work
because it was chosen by my soul before
i was born
i think all of us
who chose to enter
time and space during this very very
intense period
in a way i think took on more karma
than
was maybe common in
centuries past that just to be here to
live in these very very challenging
times is to take on heavy
responsibilities for the entire human
family
we are doing this in the physical world
just as we do it in our psychedelic
sessions
and i think that we chose it we knew
what we were getting into
and we are now here living it out
bringing it into fruition inside
physical world
i have always been
um a compassionate person chris i've
been accused of being pathologically
forgiving
but i find that in this moment
my
compassion is increasing
at an exponential rate like i feel
i can i can see in myself i am being
forced to grow i'm being pulled to grow
and i see that happening to a lot of
people around us so
i
i concur that we can all do this work
on
many different levels and it's just
important to heal your child as it is
you know
to do the large scale work that you did
ah i don't know i mean it's just
again i keep coming back to the point
that
i really would encourage everybody to
either read your book
or to come to this seven week course
i feel that it is
god's work that you're sharing with us
my dear and that the people that come to
this class are going to have a an
expanded understanding of
the workings of the universe and how to
be
kind of um
a soldier in the transformation towards
this diamond human
being that we all want to get to and the
sooner the better right the less chaos
the better
and so that's why i wanted to take this
time and to kind of share this with with
the people that um are fans of magical
egypt because i think you know you're
greasing the wheels my dear you're
making it just that little bit easier
it is in some ways like being a soldier
but it is a very different kind of
soldier isn't it because here
one conquers by surrendering
you you
you confront evil or pain
and you don't fight it you let it in you
surrender to it it becomes part of your
world and then it moves through you and
it resolves itself so it's a very
peculiar
way it's it it's like a woman in labor
doesn't fight her pain she cooperates
with it she works with it she surrenders
to it she lets the pain carrier through
to the birth process it's like that in a
psychedelic session
you know this was a hard book for me to
write it was hard for me it took me
years to get my head around
sharing
these sessions because
um
you know they're the deepest experiences
i've ever had in my life they're the the
my experiences of god
and
at first i wanted to publish this book
posthumously just wait till i die leave
it behind
but the mother told me no
you can't do that uh
there's not enough time we're going into
choppy water all hands on deck please
thank you very much
uh all of us need to show up and put our
gifts forward so that together we can
support each other we can nourish each
other and bring this
critical period of history to good
outcome
bring us through it faster
we'll go through it faster if we go
through it smart if we go through it
with compassion we can mit we can reduce
the suffering it's like you know the
global climate crisis the the the
conferences which have just taken place
the g20
if we
are smart and take more aggressive steps
we can minimize we can reduce the pain
and suffering if we don't act with
intelligence and courage we're going to
increase the suffering later
so we all have options as we come into
this period of history we all have
options we all have choices we're all
part of the human family dealing with
this
and the more we know the more we
understand the more we trust the better
our choices can be
the speedier outcome the better world we
can leave for our grandchildren
well we're blessed to have you chris and
i'm so glad you didn't wait because then
i wouldn't have had the opportunity to
talk to you and um and i think hearing
this you know from your own voice is so
powerful so i
want to apologize first of all that my
connection has been so bad um next i
want to point people in the chat there
is a link to chris's course that's
coming up again i highly suggest that
you go if you can't go please share it
um just so that we can have as many
hands on deck as chris said and i want
to thank you my dear so much for your
time today and um
holding my breath you know surrendering
doing what
thank you so much for this conversation
and for all the conversations that you
host which is part of the facilitation
of this larger awakening process for
humanity
if you if any of one on your uh cast
wants to go to the page the website of
the course they can find it at
explorecosmicmind.com
explorecosmicmind.com you'll see the
course you'll see the descriptions
you'll see all and
there are all sorts of free bonuses you
get if you sign up for the course you
get lots of nice free bonuses everybody
gets a free ebook
some of stan groff's courses are going
to be given to you uh some unpublished
articles that i've written will be given
to you the chapter of the audiobook
so there's lots of
freebies that will come with the course
and i i hope it attracts a wonderful
group of people i'm sure it will people
who like yourself are curious wondering
and who are workers who really want to
bring about
a better world
i'm sure it will be the best group of
people darling i'm i'm i'm i'm i'm sure
we'll come away with wonderful new
friends
so thank you just again it was explore
i put in the different ones
dot com explorer
cosmicmind.com
all right my loves i'll pop that in the
chat and i'm going to email this to all
the magical egypt people so i'll make
sure to put that in as well
so
thank you chris you have a wonderful
evening and it starts on the 17th is
that correct so coming up
well actually the course itself starts
on november 30th
oh fantastic
yeah there was there's a an invitational
event a one-hour invitational event in
which steve dinan and i talk about the
course and what it's going to be that's
going to be rebroadcast on the 16th here
i don't know whether that's 17th where
you are
but basically the course will not start
until november 30. okay every tuesday
for three weeks we take two weeks off
for christmas holidays and then four
weeks through january
fabulous sweetie all right well we will
see you there hopefully we'll see lots
of magical egypt people thank you for
listening as well magical egypt people
and chris you have a wonderful evening
thank you again bless you my dear thank
you thank you very much venice bye-bye